Excellent Hill Stations

Ooty, Kodaikanal, Yercaud,
Yelagiri, Javvadhu Hills, Kolli
Hills, Sirumalai Hills, Valparai,
Top Slip, Kalrayan Hills and
Pachamalai Hills.

Ooty 

Ooty, short for Ootacamund and officially Udhagamandalam, is a popular hill resort in the state of Tamil Nadu in Southern India. The name Udhagamandalam is derived from the Toda word "othakal-mund" which means "house in mountains". Ooty stands at 2,240 m (7,347 feet) above sea level in the Nilgiri mountain range.

Tourist Places in Ooty

Elk Hill Murugan Temple, Mudumalai National Park, Tamil Nadu, Tea Museum, Doddabetta Peak, Botanical Garden, Fernhills Palace, Pykara Waterfalls, Ooty Lake, Homemade Chocolates from King Star, Toda Huts


Best Time to Visit in Ooty

Ooty can be visited through the year, but the ideal time is in the winter between October and March

Kodaikanal

Kodaikanal is one of the very popular holiday destination hill resorts in South India. This hill station stands 7200 feet above sea level and situated in upper palani hills of the westernghats near Madurai in Tamil Nadu. Kodaikanal is also popularly known as the princes of Hill Stations.

Tourist Places in Kodaikanal

Guna Caves, Kodai Lake, Bear Shola Falls, Kukkal Caves, Dolphin's Nose View Point

Best Time to Visit in Kodaikanal

Kodaikanal can be visited through the year, but the ideal time is in the winter between October and March

Silvery Cascades (Waterfalls)

Courtallam, Hogenakkal,
Thirparappu, Papanasam, Akasa
Gangai (Kolli Hills), Thirumurthi
Falls.

Courtallam

Courtallam is situated at the Western Ghats in Tenkasi District. The famous waterfalls on rocks and tiny droplets are sprinkled in the air. The water falls of Courtallam have medicinal value as they run through forest and herbs before their decent. The Courtallam is called as 'Spa' of South India.

Best Time to Visit in Courtallam

The best time to visit is mid- June to September and October-January


National Parks

Guindy National Park, Anaimalai-
Indira Gandhi National Park and
Gulf of Mannar Marine National
Park.

Anaimalai - Indira Gandhi National Park

Anaimalai Tiger Reserve, earlier known as Indira Gandhi Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park and as Anaimalai Wildlife Sanctuary, is a protected area in the Anaimalai Hills of Pollachi and Valparai taluks of Coimbatore District and Udumalaipettai taluk in Tiruppur District, Tamil Nadu, India.

Best Time to Visit Indira Gandhi National Park

The best time to visit Indira Gandhi National Park in Tamil Nadu is between October and March. During these months, the weather is cool and pleasant, making it ideal for wildlife safaris, trekking, and sightseeing. 

Wildlife and Birds Sanctuaries

a) Wildlife Sanctuaries
Mudumalai, Kalakkad,
Mundanthurai, Kodiakarai
and Berijam.

Wildlife Sanctuaries Mudumalai

Mudumalai National Park is one of the Tiger Reserve in India. The Wildlife Sanctuary is located in the North West region of Coimbatore city in Tamil Nadu state. The protected area is home to several endangered and vulnerable species including Indian elephant, Bengal tiger, gaur and Indian leopard.

The best time to visit Mudumalai National Park in Tamil Nadu, India is from October to May. During this time, the weather is pleasant and wildlife spotting is easier. 

b) Birds Sanctuaries
Vedanthangal, Karikilli,
Pulicat, Karaivetti,
Udhyamarthandapuram,
Vaduvoor, Chithirankudi,
Koonthankulam, Vellode,
Melaselvanur, Vettangudi and
Pichavaram Mangrove Coast.

Birds Sanctuaries Vedanthangal

Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary is a bird sanctuary in the Madurantakam taluk of the Chengalpattu district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Established in 1936, it is the oldest wildlife sanctuary in India. It has been designated as a protected Ramsar site since 2022.

It normally opens in the month of November and remains open until the month of May / June depending on the availability of water

Botanical Garden

Ooty, Kodaikanal, Coimbatore.

Botanical Garden Ooty 

The Government Botanical Garden is a botanical garden in Udhagamandalam, near Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu state, India laid out in 1848. The gardens, divided into several sections, cover an area of around 22 hectares, and lie on the lower slopes of Doddabetta peak. The garden has a terraced layout.

UNESCO Declared Monuments

Chola Temples – Big Temple in
Thanjavur, Iravatheeswarar
Temple in Dharasuram and Siva
Temple in Gangaikonda
Cholapuram, Monuments at
Mamallapuram, Nilgiris Heritage
Train.

Chola Temples – Big Temple in Thanjavur

Brihadishvara Temple, called Rajarajesvaram by its builder, and known locally as Thanjai Periya Kovil and Peruvudaiyar Kovil, is a Shaivite Hindu temple built in a Chola architectural style located on the south bank of the Cauvery river in Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu, India.

Beaches

Marina Beach, Elliots Beach,
Kanniyakumari, Pulicat,
Mudaliarkuppam.

Marina Beach

Marina Beach, or simply the Marina, is a natural urban beach in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India, along the Bay of Bengal. The beach runs from near Fort St. George in the north to Foreshore Estate in the south, a distance of 6.0 km, making it the second longest urban beach in the world, after Cox's Bazar Beach.

Famous Temples

Navagraha temples, Nava
Tirupathi temples, Six Abodes of
Lord Murugan, Famous temples
at Rameswaram, Chidambaram,
Madurai, Thanjavur, Srirangam,
Thiruvannamalai, Kanniyakumari,
Kancheepuram.

Churches:

Santhome, Velankanni,
Manappad, Panimaya Madha,
Poondi Madha Church.

Mosques:

Thousand Light Mosque at
Chennai, Nagore Durgha, Erwadi,
Thengaipattinam, Keelakkarai,
Kayalpattinam.

Museums

Chennai Museum and 20 other
Museums in the Districts.

Palaces

Thirumalai Naicker Mahal,
Thanjavur Palace,
Padmanabhapuram Palace,
Chettinad Palace.

Forts

St. George Fort at Chennai,
Danish Fort at Tranquebar,
Vellore, Dindigul, Namakkal,
Gingee, Thirumayam,
Kattabomman Fort.